The main quest is all too easy to botch up completely, so be careful!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


01. Meeting Lady Brisienna                                                  043
    Level Req: None
    Quest Req: None

A few weeks after you begin the game, you will receive a letter from Lady
Brisienna; she is another agent of the Emperor, and knows of your task. In her
letter, she asks you to meet with her to discuss the current situation and
where to begin your investigations. She'll give you one month.

If you do not meet with her by the end of that month, she will send you another
letter saying that she has extended her stay for one additional month, and she
threatens to report your uncooperation to the Emperor if you do not meet with
her. Keep in mind that if you refuse meet with Lady B, you will be marked a
traitor to the Emperor, and you will be unable to continue with the main quest
--as in, you lose! If you do plan on going ahead with the story, you must meet
with this woman.

The tavern she chooses to stay in is selected at random, but will be within the
kingdom of Daggerfall. The gist of the meeting is that you should go ask around
at the three main kingdoms of the bay--Daggerfall, Wayrest, and Sentinel--and
see what they know.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


This is where the story splits up. There are a few different ways to really
begin the main quest, and they branch and reconnect as they go along. Some of
the quests are even optional. Of the 24 quests for the main story, only 18 are
absolutely required. Here's the basic breakdown:


***  Part I - The Missing Letter ***

 2. Morgiah's Letter       3. Cyndassa's Brother
         |                           |
         |                           |
         |                           |
         |                 4. Finding the Courier
         |                           |
         |                           |
         +------>------>------>------+
         |                           |
         |                           |
  5. The Lich's Soul      6. The Letter Retrieved
         |                           |
         |                           |
         +------<------<------<------+
         |                           |
         |                           |
         |               7. What is the Mantella?
         |
         |
         |
     End Part I


***  Part II - Lysandus's Revenge ***

            8. A Missing Prince
                     |
                     |                  
         +-----<-----+----->-----+
         |                       |
         |                       |
  9. The Painting       11. Seeking Medora
         |                       |
         |                       |
         |                       |
         |             12. Breaking the Curse
         |                       |
         |                       |
         |                       |
 10. The Underking    13. The Dust of Restful Death
         |                       |
         |                       |
         +----->-----+-----<-----+
                     |
                     |
            14. Lysandus's Tomb
                     |
                     |
                     |
            15. Woodborne Hall
                     |
                     |
                     |
                End Part II


***  Part III - Numidium Reborn ***

   Part I         Part II
     |               |
     |               |
     +--->---+---<---+
             |
             |
       16. The Totem
             |
             |
             |
       17. Decisions
             |
             |
             |
   18. The Mantellan Crux
             |
             |
             |
          The End


***  Optional Quests  ***

     19. Blackmail --- OR --- 20. Elysana's Gift
            |
            |
            |
 21. A Book for Barenziah


 22. The Madness of Nulfaga
             |
             |
             |
   23. Mynisera's Letters


 24. Elysana's Trap


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |                   *** Part I - The Missing Letter  ***                    |
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

02. Morgiah's Letter                                                        044
    Level Req: 3
    Quest Req: None

After you hit 3rd level, you should receive a letter from Morgiah, princess of
Wayrest--actually, you should receive a number of letters, hers is one of them.
She knows something of the Emperor's letter, and will give you that information
if you do a task for her; get used to this sort of arrangement, nobody will
give you information for free. Morgiah is up by the thrones with her cat.

Her task is to deliver a letter to the King of Worms, a powerful necromancer
and without a doubt the coolest character in the game. To find him, make your
way to the Dragontail Mountains, which lie in the southeast corner of the world
map. His lair is called the Scourg Barrow.

When you enter the Scourg Barrow, you will find nothing but a small room with
seven coffins; open the second coffin from your left to find the secret passage
--well, secret pitfall is more descriptive. Because you'll have to come back
out this way, be sure to leave a Teleportation anchor in this entry chamber if
you cannot Levitate or Climb--of course, you could drop an anchor regardless
just to make life easier.

You will drop down into a passage that will lead to a room with a few zombies
and many doors. Kill or avoid the zombies, and leave out the door to the left
of the one you entered through. Follow this passage to the end, and through the
door. If you take a left at the fork, you will find yourself in a cavernous
passage. Follow the slope downward, and take the first right. The passage
should quickly become paved, and you will find a passage and door to your left.

Pick or bash open the door and try to not to freak out, for the King of Worms's
lair is filled with no less than two Ancient Liches and a Vampire Ancient,
along with a few scantily clad dancers and dudes with wicked halberds.
Fortunately for you, they won't attack unless provoked. The KoW himself is up
on the dais, next to the coffin. Talk to him and he'll give you a reply letter
for Morgiah. This puts you on good terms with the King of Worms.

To get out, go back the way you came in--which is easiest if you left an anchor
at the entryway. You'll have to levitate or climb out of the coffin; if you
want to climb, the only scalable wall is the North one. If you can't climb or
levitate, the developers were thoughtful enough the enchant the nearby tapestry
to cast levitate on you.

Return to Morgiah at Castle Wayrest and she will tell you that the Orc Chief
Gortwog has the letter. She directs you to seek out Mynisera, the dowager queen
of Daggerfall and wife of the late King Lysandus, about this matter; Morgiah
advises you to approach the queen through her handmaid, Cyndassa.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

03. Cyndassa's Brother                                                      045
    Level Req: 5
    Quest Req: None

Handmaid to Queen Mynisera, Cyndassa can be found in Castle Daggerfall. Her
room is on the left side of the grand staircase that leads to the thrones. She
will put in a good word for you with Mynisera if you do her a small favor:
Cyndassa wants a particular werewolf killed.

The werewolf will be located in a randomly selected dungeon in Daggerfall. As
such, I can't help you find the poor beast, but you'll get a message when you
kill the right one. Return to Cyndassa when you are finished.

It turns out, of course, that the werewolf wasn't just any werewolf, but 
Cyndassa's own brother. She wanted to put him out of his misery and prevent him
from hurting anyone. Whatever. The important part is the deed is done.

Cyndassa will reveal that the Emperor's letter was mistakenly delivered to
Queen Aubk-i instead of Mynisera. She will also recommend you to Mynisera.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

04. Finding the Courier                                                     046
    Level Req: 5
    Quest Req: 03. Cyndassa's Brother

You'll find Mynisera in Castle Daggerfall, in the room on the right side of the
grand staircase. Curious about why the letter was not delivered properly, she
will send you on a mission to track down the courier. This is somewhat of a
wild goose chase, as Mynisera will send to you one person, who will inform you
that the courier is expected to be in a certain town on a certain day; your
task is to intercept him on that day. Keep in mind that the date for his
arrival given to you in the quest dialog may be different from that of your
logbook; if that is the case, go with your logbook.

The courier will inform you that the letter was simply addressed to the Queen
of Daggerfall. Of course, while Mynisera was queen when the Emperor wrote the
letter, Lysandus died in the meantime and Gothryd and Aubk-i were in charge
when the letter was delivered. Hence the confusion.

That's it! This may not seem like an important errand, but it will all fit
together soon enough.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

05. The Lich's Soul                                                         047
    Level Req: 7
    Quest Req: 02. Morgiah's Letter

After you reach level 7 and have completed Morgiah's quest to deliver the
letter to the King of Worms, you will receive a...message from him. An odd 
fellow, the King of Worms contacts you by sending a zombie after you; after you
kill it, you'll find a note stitched into the zombie's flesh. Sick, but
effective! Zombie post is the only way to go.

The necromancer has a task for you, so it's back to the Scourg Barrow to talk
it over. If you don't remember how to get there, refer back to Quest 02. The
King informs you that there is a certain lich lurking around the bowels of
Castle Sentinel; your task is to kill it and trap its soul for the King of
Worms. Don't worry, you don't need a soultrap spell or soulgem to do this
quest; he'll give you a special scarab that will automatically trap the lich's
soul.

As the lich is in Castle Sentinel, that's your next stop. For ease of escape,
drop a teleportation anchor somewhere. You'll have to find your way to the
dungeon entrance from within the Castle itself. From the grand entry chamber,
go straight through the door on the back wall into the garden. Go through the
door on the far right corner of the room, and up the elevator. Follow that
passage up to the throne room. From there, go through the first door on your
right, straight through to the next door, and down the elevator.

What follows is an extremely long corridor, during which you will notice the
music change tunes. You are now in the dungeon of Castle Sentinel.

Keep following the passage as it twists around and take the turn on your left.
Then follow that as it descends a little. You will pass a lantern and then a
torch; immediately after the torch, turn left. Follow the passage around to the
elevator; the elevator will not stop for it, but you will want to get off at
the first opening. Follow the passage and pull the lever you find in the room.
Then return to the elevator and ride it to the top of the shaft.

You will enter a room filled with blue bars. The obviously important door with
the tapestries that is caged off leads to your final destination and the lich.
To go there, we'll have to lower the bars, which currently block off every door
in the room save for two: the one you entered through and one other, so exit
through that other door, which is on the West wall, and ride the elevator you
find to the bottom.

Do not pull the lever by the elevator, but instead follow the passage to the
right and take that elevator to the second opening; kill the critter, then
follow the next elevator to the top. Going north will take you back to the blue
bar room, which is currently blocked off, so go East and follow the passage
until you find a lever. Pull that lever and return to the elevator, going North
this time into the blue bar room.

You will find a new door has been opened, directly across from you, so go
through it and down the elevator. You will find yourself in a torture chamber
with a lever. Pull the lever and return to the blue bar room.

Now go straight through the blue bar room to the previous elevator (left door on
the South wall) and ride it to the bottom, around the bend, and take the second
elevator to the bottom. If you go to the right, you will see that the bars are
no longer blocking that passage, so go that way. Pull the lever you find and
ride the elevator to the top.

You will find yourself back at the Blue Bar room, except that the cage is gone.
Go through the tapestry door, and follow the passage to its end, where you will
find the lich. Remember that he can only be harmed by mithril weapons or
better, or by magic. Once he is disposed of and his soul siphoned into the
scarab, return to the King of Worms for your reward.

Your reward is that the King of Worms tells you about the Underking, who is
Zurin Arctus, the Imperial Battlemage who aided Tiber Septim in his conquest of
Tamriel. Septim betrayed Zurin, for reasons you will discover, but the
battlemage managed to live on in an undead state, and eventually became known
as the Underking.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

06. The Letter Retrieved                                                    048
    Level Req: 5
    Quest Req: 02. Morgiah's Letter, 04. Finding the Courier

Now that Morgiah has informed you that the Emperor's letter is in the hands of
Gortwog, and Mynisera is aware of her missing letter and how it went astray,
it's time to go get the damn thing. If you talk to Mynisera, she will send you
with a letter to Gortwog, who lives in Orsinium. You'll find Orsinium north of
Wayrest on the world map. Gortwog himself will be in the back of the entrance
chamber

In her letter, Mynisera asks Gortwog to return the letter; in return she will
aid him in his attempts to secure a sovereign nation for the orcs. Gortwog
complies with this by allowing you to poke around Orsinium and find the letter
yourself. Jerk.

Go through the left door at the back of the entrance chamber. From here, it's a
forkless path for quite a while. At the first intersection you come to, turn
left. The path will be a straight shot for a while, but eventually you will
come to a huge open chamber with a pyramidlike structure in the middle.

You want to get up to the top balcony. You can either levitate yourself up
there, or it just so happens that jumping into those fountains in the corners
will teleport you around. The one you want is the fountain in the Northeast
corner.

Once you are on the balcony, follow the left staircase up and follow the right
wall until you come to a door. Enter the door and continue to follow the right
wall until you come to another door. Follow the passage through two cavelike
areas, and continue to follow the right wall until the passage ends at a door.

Go through the door and take an immediate left, following the passage until it
opens up into a large room with--get this--a letter on a pedestal! Once you
have the letter, go back the way you came in, or teleport if you thought ahead.


Now we finally get to see what the Emperor wanted to tell Mynisera, what secret
that was so important that he sent his trusted agent all the way to Daggerfall
to investigate and retrieve. The letter tells that the Totem of Tiber Septim
has been recovered by a certain Lord Woodborne of Wayrest, and that Mynisera
should use her influence to persuade him to return the Totem to the Emperor.


Now you have to ask yourself: What is this Totem, and what did Tiber Septim do
with it? More importantly, who else knows the contents of this letter?

Be sure to return the letter to Mynisera, so she can finally get her mail.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

07. What is the Mantella?                                                   049
    Level Req: None
    Quest Req: 06. The Letter Retrieved

This isn't really a quest, but after you retrieve the Emperor's letter, you
will receive letters from certain factions--assuming they like you enough. The
letter will tell about Numidium, a massive brass golem that Tiber Septim used
to conquer Tamriel centuries ago. Numidium is controlled by whoever possesses
the Totem.

If any faction really likes you, then you will also get letters with
information about the Mantella, which is a magical gem that powers Numidium;
without the Mantella, both the Totem and Numidium are useless.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |                   ***  Part II - Lysandus's Revenge  ***                  |
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

08. A Missing Prince                                                        050
    Level Req: 5
    Quest Req: None

Once you hit level 5, you should receive a letter from Prince Lhotun of
Sentinel. You will find him in the grand entry chamber of Castle Sentinel. He
has information for you, and just like everyone else, he asks you to do him a
favor first. Lhotun tasks you to investigate the death of his older brother,
Arthago, because he does not believe the official story of a sudden illness
claiming his brother's life.

Ask around and you'll find some interesting stuff, but after a few days or weeks
you will receive a letter from an agent of the Underking, advising you to
investigate a certain dungeon for clues about the missing prince. The dungeon
is randomly selected, so you're on your own in finding whatever there is to
find (it's a letter).

Return your findings to Lhotun and he will tell you about Lysandus's love
affair with the sorceress Medora Direnni, and to seek her out for information
about his death. Unfortunately, after Lysandus's death his wife, Mynisera,
banished Medora from the court of Daggerfall; she fled to her tower on the Isle
of Balfeira, which was subsequently cursed by Lysandus's mother, Nulfaga,
locking Medora in her tower and infesting it with all sorts of undead
creatures. If you are to speak to her, you'll have to fight your way up to her.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

09. The Painting                                                            051
    Level Req: 5
    Quest Req: 08. A Missing Prince

Some time after Lhotun's quest you will receive a letter from his mother, Queen
Akorithi, bidding you to come see her. She has a task for you, as I sure you
have guessed. No, she isn't offering information, just gold. The task is to
break into Castle Wayrest and bring her a certain item--a painting, but it's a
special painting, as you will soon see.

Make your way to Castle Wayrest, and if you don't have a Teleportation spell
(what have you been thinking?) get one. This dungeon happens to be full of
teleporters, so it's not just a simple matter of retracing your steps to get
back out. I'll go over how to leave anyways, but it's just easier for you if
you teleport.

It wouldn't hurt to have a water walking/breathing spell as well.

Anyways, on to Castle Wayrest. Just for kicks, be sure to click on the creepy
moaning kid in the entryway. What a weirdo! Drop an anchor, then make you way
into the Great Hall behind the throne room, through the huge doors. From there,
make your way through the door on the North wall--the guards will probably
try to attack you at this point; feel free to kill them. Once through the door,
turn left and follow the passage to a room filled with coffins. You will see a
brick wall in the corner--this is a teleporter, so step into it.

You will be transported to a room with another brick wall, which will lead
you to another room and another brick wall. Ignore the lever in the second
room. The final teleporter will send you to a torture chamber; exit through the
door and take a right, through another door and make your way to the South.

Follow the passage until you run into a door, which will be facing West. It
will open up into a large water-filled canal. Go around the canal to the
far West side, where you will see a board lying across the water. drop into
the water. You will see a small tunnel to the East, which you will have to duck
to get into. Crawl through the opening and then up, out of the water and
through the door.

At the top of the stairs you will find a window-like structure blocking your
path. Believe it or not, but you'll have to squeeze through that window to
proceed. SAVE YOUR GAME! You'll probably end up getting stuck in the window or
falling into the void a few times. The best way to get through it is to duck
and then climb through the opening; it can take a few tries to get right.

Once you are through the window, follow the passage and take the third door you
come to, which will be facing West. Follow the passage, taking the first left,
and then continuing on until you come to the big room with--hey, a painting!
You can "use" it to look at it. You'll see something interesting if you do.

At this point, it's time to teleport away and report to Queen Akorithi back in
Sentinel. If for whatever silly reason you neglected to lay an anchor somewhere
that you can teleport back to, here's how to get out:

Retrace your steps all the way back to where you last teleported. From that
room (the torture chamber) exit through the door, and this time go left into
the other room. In there you will find a secret door on the West wall. The door
leads to an oddly textured, narrow corridor with very large stairs. The path
will fork and you will see a wheel to the right. Spin that wheel and continue
on your way.

Eventually you will come to a room. Exit through the door on your left and then
into the room across the hall, where you will find a teleporter. The teleporter
will send you to a room with a fountain (you'll actually appear on top of the
fountain). Exit and follow the passage until you see a door on your left, which
will lead to a room with a final teleporter.

If you look to the South wall you will see a secret door which will take you
through a tunnel to a door. Through the door, take a left and follow the stairs
up to a room, and then through the door to the South. Did the music just
change? That means your back in Castle Wayrest, and out of the dungeon. Follow
the left wall until you reemerge at the Great Hall. Don't forget that the
guards still want you to kill them.

Report back to Akorithi and give her the painting. She'll ask you if you
looked at the painting; feel free to lie to her.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

10. The Underking                                                           052
    Level Req: 8
    Quest Req: 09. The Painting

This quest begins with you receiving a letter from an agent of the Underking,
asking you to meet him in a tavern in Sentinel. There, you will learn that the
King of Worms has placed a cursed item in Castle Llugwych in the kingdom of
Ykalon. The castle is a stronghold for the Blades, so your task is to remove it
before it can do harm.

Upon entering the castle, you will find yourself in a room with a few odd
looking columns with heads. Proceed through the West door, through the room,
and West again into a hallway. Follow the passage and take the first door you
come to, on your left. Take a left and again, take the first door you come to,
this time on your right. Pass through the room into the hallway.

Follow the passage, going left at each of the two four-way intersections, and
continue until you go South straight through a door. Continue going straight
and take a left at the intersection. The passage will end at a South facing
door.

Go through the door and East, following the passage until it comes to an
elevator. Past the elevator are two rooms, each with a switch. Pull both and
then ride the elevator to the top. From there, follow the passage to the right.
The rooms that follow are chock full of nasty critters, but they are guarding
the cursed item, so through them you must go.

Once you have the item, retrace your steps or teleport out. Then report back to
the agent of the Underking. He'll remove the curse, let you keep the item, and
then mark the location of Lysandus's tomb on your map. It's in Menevia.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

11. Seeking Medora                                                          053
    Level Req: 8
    Quest Req: 08. A Missing Prince

Taking Prince Lhotun's advice, it's time to go see Medora about her knowledge
about Lysandus's death and haunting. The path through her tower is not
pleasant. You'll find Direnni Tower near the center of the Isle of Balfeira,
which is the string of islands in the middle of the Illiac Bay.

It would be wise to drop a teleportation anchor near the entrance to the tower.

Once inside the tower, you will see the passage ahead deadends. Open the door
next to you and enter the great staircase chamber. Go down the steps, across,
and climb the second staircase to the first landing. You will see a wheel;
give it a turn and return to the dungeon entrance. You will see that the hall
that was a deadend is now open.

Follow the hall through a door and then make an immediate right, walking
through a passage with a few vertical support beams, and enter the room at the
end. Here, you will find a torture chamber with an odd brick wall. That brick
wall is actually a teleporter. By walking into it, you will transported into a
flooded room piled with crates. Exit through the door and climb the stairs
into the next room.

You will find another brick wall in this room. Clicking on it will transport
you into the next area. If you exit through the door to the left of the green
tapestry, you will find yourself in a large chamber with a pyramid in the
middle. Your target is to reach the balcony; you can levitate their yourself if
you have the spell. For those without levitation spells: if you walk straight
up the slope, you will see a chain dangling from the balcony; click on it, and
it will cast levitation on you.

Float up to the balcony and follow the staircase on the left. Follow the right
wall, and enter the door. Go straight and you will enter an oddly shaped,
mazelike area. Follow the right wall until you come to a torch, then go
straight West. Just before the path veers to the left, you will see passages on
your left and right sloping downward. Follow either one (they meet up at the
same place) and follow the stairs down.

And it's puzzle time! If you look to your left, you will see a column with four
levers on it. If you go south and go through the door by the tapestry, you'll
come to the puzzle itself. The levers move the walls in that area, and only by
pulling the right ones will you be able to pass through the series of chambers.
Muck around them if you like, but the levers to pull are the ones with
tapestries opposite them (the East and West ones). Pull them, and proceed to
the south, through the puzzle room, and follow the passage straight up to
Medora's room.

If you speak to Medora, she will ask you to help her lift the enchantment
Nulfaga placed on her tower. If you will help her, she will help you lay
Lysandus's spirit to rest. Unfortunately, the task involves you leaving the
tower, finding an item, and then returning all the way through this dungeon
again to give it to her. So I hope you enjoyed this trip--you'll be doing it
again shortly!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

12. Breaking the Curse                                                      054
    Level Req: 10
    Quest Req: 11. Seeking Medora

In order to break the spell over Direnni Tower, you'll have to go to Nulfaga's
castle, Shedungent, in the Wrothgarian Mountains. You are looking for a Great
Unicorn Horn, which Medora can use to dispel the curse laid on her.

If you have already done the optional Quest 22. The Madness of Nulfaga, then
you already know the shortcut into Nulfaga's chamber. If you haven't done Quest
21, then you might as well drop by Castle Daggerfall and talk to Queen Aubk-i;
you're going to walk right by Nulfaga anyways, so you might as well accomplish
both quests as once!

If you haven't been to see Nulfaga yet and don't know the shortcut into and out
of her chamber--and don't want it revealed right now--then you'll find the
walkthrough for finding Nulfaga under Quest 22. For now, we'll use the shortcut
that you'll learn the first time you meet the crazy old bat.

Once in Shedungent, walk straight ahead and click on the banner by the door.
Answer "shut up" and the door will open for you. You're now back in Nulfaga's
chamber; feel free to say hello and get your daily recommended dosage of
nonsensical rambling, but our real business is straight through the chamber
into the passage on the North side.

Continue along the passage, going up and down a flight of stairs, and then
follow the passage to the left at the first intersection, up some more stairs.
You will come to a four-way junction, take a left and follow the passage around
until you see a torch on the left wall. Click on it and then take the next
left. Follow the right wall around the bend and you will come to a room.

It may look like a dead end, but there is actually a secret door on the South
wall. You can recognize it by the mismatched texture. Beyond is a small room
with the Horn on the bed. Snatch it up and return to Medora.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

13. The Dust of Restful Death                                               055
    Level Req: 10
    Quest Req: 12. Breaking the Curse

About one month after you free Medora, she will contact you in a vision. She
tells you that Gortwog knows the location of the Dust of Restful Death, which
can help calm the spirit of Lysandus. If you go to Gortwog, he will tell you
where the dust is located--in a nearby dungeon, selected at random. So you are
on your own once again. Gortwog may not make this clear, but you are actually
looking for a mummy that is carrying the dust.

Once you have the dust, which accompanied by a letter from Gortwog, take it
back to Medora. Yes, in her tower. Again. She will require a month to prepare
the dust for use, so you'll have to leave Direnni Tower and return after a
month has passed. You'll probably be happy to know that once you have the
refined dust, you won't ever have to retrace your steps through that damn tower
ever again!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

14. Lysandus's Tomb                                                         056
    Level Req: 10
    Quest Req: 10. The Underking, 12. Breaking the Curse

So you have the Dust of Restful Death, and Medora has prepared it for use. Now
you just have to find Lysandus's tomb. There are only two ways to get the
location. Once is by completing Quest 10. The Underking, the other by doing the
optional Quest 23. Elysana's Trap. Since you have to do Quest 10 anyways, it
might as well be that one.

So his tomb is in Menevia, as I'm sure you now know, so go there. It's time to
pacify this vengeful ghost and see just what it would take to shut him up
permanently. Considering he was murdered, I'm sure you can guess what he wants.

This is a heck of a long trek. Be sure to drop a teleportation anchor near the
entrance; it will make leaving so much easier. At the back of the entrance
chamber with all the statues, take the left door. Follow the left wall until
you go through a door. Then follow the passage until you see a floating skull.
Clicking on the skull will teleport to another area.

Go through the door in front of you, and follow the passage. At the first
intersection, take a right. Watch out for the pitfall at the top of the ramp,
and follow the passage until you pass through a door. Turn left, and then take
a right at the next two intersections. At the third, which you should approach
pointing South, go East.

Once you pass through the door, take a right. Follow the passage, turning only
when the passage turns, and you will eventually come to a door on your left.
Take the door, which will lead to an area with a different tileset.

At the next two intersections, take a left, and then a right. Follow the
passage through a door and a small room. After the small room, follow the
passage straight through and take the second door on your left; it will be
facing East.

Follow the passage. It's a long one. At the second intersection, turn right.
Then take a left at the next one. The passage will end at an elevator, which
you should ride to the bottom. Then follow the passage all the way around; once
you are facing North, take the second door you pass and ride the elevator down
to the bottom. Down there you will find a room with a lever; pull it and ride
back up to the top and continue along the passage until you end at a door.

You are now in Lysandus's Tomb! Go through the opened hatch in the Southeast
column; there you will find a switch. Once you pull it the floor of the main
chamber will begin to lower, so after you pull it quickly run over so you can
ride it down to the bottom.

Click on Lysandus's Coffin, and you will automatically use the Dust of Restful
Death to calm him enough to speak to you (this is a cutscene). He will tell
you that his murderer was Lord Woodborne of Wayrest, and he seeks vengeance on
him. Considering a certain "W" has been sending assassins after you, I don't
think you'll mind taking care of this for the late king.

Getting out is a pain. At this point, you should just teleport back out.
Otherwise: facing Lysandus, if you click on the first statue to the left of
his little area, the floor will begin to raise again. From there, you'll have
to retrace your steps all the way back to the room the skull teleported you to.
On the Northern wall, you'll find a well-masked secret door that will lead to
another skull, which will teleport near the entrance.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

15. Woodborne Hall                                                          057
    Level Req: 10
    Quest Req: 14. Lysandus's Tomb

We know you did it, Woodborne. And we know where you live, too. It's time to
deal out some sweet, sweet vengeance. There are actually two ways of doing
this. You can either find and kill Woodborne yourself, or you can find his
letter confessing the crime, take it to King Eadwyre of Wayrest and let him
execute Woodborne for you. Both tasks begin at Woodborne Hall in Wayrest.

The dungeon opens into the grand entry. You'll see disconnected pieces of a
great ramp that leads up to the upper level, and normally you would have to go
running around looking for the four switches to move the ramp into position.
Well, not today; I've told before that you have to be able to climb or levitate
to finish the main quest; while this isn't quite one of those necessary
moments, you should have the skills anyways. So let's put them to the test.

Method one: just levitate yourself up there! Why waste time moving ramps around
when you can fly? Seriously!

Method two: you can also climb up, but it takes a little trick to do. You see,
if you sidestep while climbing, you will fall in that direction. This means
that if you climb up the wall next to the ramp, once you are above it you can
sidestep in that direction, causing you to fall onto the ramp. So what you need
to do is look up on the North wall and see where the right edge of the ramp is.
You should be able to follow the line of the bricks on the wall and position
yourself such that you can climb up right next to the ramp. Now climb! You
should be close enough to the ramp that you will see it as you pass; once you
are above it, sidestep to the left, and you should land on the ramp. Hah!

Now that you are up, go through the door and follow the passage, turning only
when you must. You will pass through two intersections, a door, a very long
hallway, another door, and then you will come to an intersection. Here you must
make your choice: Do you go for the letter, or do you KILL WOODBORNE?

-- The Letter:

Go right at the intersection. Follow the passage until you come to a T; take a
right, and follow the passage until you come to an elevator. If you look South
of the elevator, you will see a wall blocking off the passage. If you ride the
elevator up and down and back, it will be gone. Go figure. No, you can't just
send the elevator around, you actually have to be riding on it. Congratulate
yourself on finding the oddest security system in the Bay, and go on down the
passage into the room. You'll find a few treasure piles and the letter. Take it
to Eadwyre and let him do the dirty work.

--- The Kill:

You want to kill him yourself? I don't blame you as he's probably been sending
assassins after you for quite a while. And if you did any quests for Elysana,
Woodborne's betrothed, which always turned into traps, I'm sure you're holding
more than a few grudges. Well, it's time to make like the dead king of
Daggerfall and lust for revenge!

Go straight through the intersection, and then go East at the next. Go straight
through the next intersection, and take your first left. Through the door,
follow the passage through the four-way intersection. Continue along the passage
and it will come to a T and then a fork; go left both times. After the fork,
take the first door on your right. Inside will be Lord Woodborne. Hack his ass
to pieces, and leave.

Once Woodborne is dealt with, you should see the cutscene of Lysandus thanking
you and going to his rest.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |                    ***  Part III - Numidium Reborn  ***                   |
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

16. The Totem                                                               058
    Level Req: 14
    Quest Req: 5. The Lich's Soul, 6. The Letter Retrieved, 15. Woodborne Hall

Once you've completed the first two parts of the main quest, you should be
contacted by Lady Brisienna again, urging you to meet her at a tavern in
Wayrest. There, she'll tell you your next mission--to retrieve the Totem of
Tiber Septim!

But wait, didn't the Emperor's letter say that Lord Woodborne had it? Yes, but
remember that Queen Aubk-i read that letter, and so did Gortwog, and so did a
lot of other people. Lady Brisienna will inform you that Aubk-i had the Totem
stolen from Woodborne, and it now lies in the vault of Castle Daggerfall.

From Castle Daggerfall, go up to the thrones and take the door to the left of
King Gothryd. Follow the passage until you come to a large open chamber.

To your left you should see a floating platform extending into the room, walk
out to the end of it. Look to the Northwest; do you see the bridge that leads
to a door? You must get to that door. If you can levitate, do so.

If you cannot levitate, there is another way: Look down; you should see a small
bridge below the platform you are standing on. Drop down onto it, then go South
into the room. Immediately to your right you will see a bridge that connects to
the central tower. Cross over, enter the tower, and go up the stairs to the
next floor. Cross the bridge in front of you can go through the door.

Go West around the ledge and North to a door, then North again through another
door. You are now in the vault! Go down to the very bottom of the room, falling
down into the water-filled pit. From there, take the left passage on the South
wall down and turn the wheel you find there. When you return, you'll find the
vault has been lowered. Now go into the right passage on the South wall.

In there you will find three chains. The left one teleports you above the
vault (but not quite on top of it), the middle one teleports you to the ledges
beside the vault, and the right one casts waterbreathing on you. Pull the
middle one, and then either levitate or make a running jump from a high ledge
onto the top of the vault. Pull the lever you find there, which will open the
vault.

The Totem is located on the North side of the vault, in the middle chamber on
the right side. If you stand on the ledge nearby, you can just run off it into
the chamber. Snag the Totem, and get out.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

17. Decisions                                                               059
    Level Req: 14
    Quest Req: 16. The Totem

Once you leave Castle Daggerfall with the Totem, you should start hearing from
the various factions competing for control of the Totem. If they like you,
they'll send you letters pleading their case; if they don't like you, they'll
send assassins instead. During this time (you have a year and a day), you must
choose one of the factions to give the Totem to--you are basically choosing who
wins the game.

Your choices are:

The Emperor, via Lady Brisienna
Gortwog and the Orcs of Orsinium
King Gothryd and Queen Aubk-i of Daggerfall
King Eadwyre and Queen Barenziah of Wayrest
Queen Akorithi of Sentinel
The Underking
The King of Worms

They all want the Totem for different reasons. Some of the factions will reward
you in some way, either in gold, items, or in some cases, betrayal. You can try
to use the Totem yourself, but that's a bad idea.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

18. The Mantellan Crux                                                      060
    Level Req: 14
    Quest Req: 17. Decisions

Once you have given the Totem to the faction of choice, Nulfaga will contact
you, bidding you to see her in her castle of Shedungent. You have retrieved the
Totem of Tiber Septim, but Numidium cannot be woken without the Mantella. This
is your final quest, to venture into Aetherius, to the Mantellan Crux. Prepare
yourself for an epic dungeon, and return to Nulfaga when you wish her to
transport you to Aetherius.

Let me tell you now two important things:
 1. There is only one way out of the Crux, and that is by grabbing the
Mantella. The only other way to leave this dungeon is to teleport back to an
anchor set before leaving.
 2. Nulfaga will only send you to the Crux once. If you teleport out, that's
it--you lost your only chance of getting the Mantella.

You only get once chance at this, so make it count. Make sure your gear is in
shape and you have all the weapons and items you need before leaving for the
Crux.

** Remember that you ABSOLUTELY must be able to either Levitate or Climb and
** Jump well to complete this dungeon.

OK, when you're ready, go talk to Nulfaga again and she will transport you to
Aetherius. Be warned: the Mantellan Crux is one heck of an odd place!


--- Area 1: The Islands

You will materialize on a small floating island with a statue on it.  If you
click on that statue, it will cast Levitate on you (isn't that nice?); quickly
rise upwards, and up to the Southeast you will see a small floating rock with a
switch on it. Pull the switch, and now descend down to the island below the
starting island.

You will see four doors floating in air. Click on the Southernmost door; it
doesn't matter if the Frost Daedra opens any or all the doors, you must click
the south door and only the south door. Floating downward, you will find a
small chamber in the Eastern side of the island; pull the switch and then float
upwards.

Up high (and I mean high) above the starting island, you will see an opening to
the Southwest; enter the opening. If your levitation starts to wear off as you
make your way to the opening, try to make it back to the starting island and
the statue will recast the spell (unless, of course, you can cast it yourself).
Once in the opening, levitate or climb up the shaft.

Follow the passage, going straight at the intersection. You will pass a set of
blue bars; pull the lever at the end of the passage to remove then, then
proceed. You will pass a few more levers. Ignore the first one; pull the
second, third, and at the end of the corridor, the fourth as well. Then return
the way you came, down the shaft and to the opening.

You must now return to the starting island, which you should barely be able to
see if you look down. If you cannot levitate, a running jump from the
threshold of the opening should do the trick. Once you are on the island,
follow the stairsteps down to the chamber within. Step onto the carpet to be
transported to the next area.


--- Area 2: The Pyramid

This part is difficult to do without levitation magic, but it is possible.

Exit the passage and ride the elevator on your right down. You will see a
graveyard area to the West Southwest. If you can levitate, float over there; if
not, you'll have to jump ship early, leaping from the elevator before it
reaches the bottom, such that you land on the graveyard.

There are three headstones that are important: The Southwesternmost and the
Easternmost each need to be clicked once and only once; they will groan at you.
The third is the Northernmost, which carries a clue.

Once that is done, fall or float down to the string of rocks and make your way
into the chamber in the side of the floating graveyard. Pull the lever you find
there, and then ride the elevator down to the bottom. Levitate over or hop
across the rocks to the elevator, and ride it to the top. It's a long ride.

Once at the top, with a nice view of the pyramid, look up to the North and you
will see an opening in the wall. Levitate up there; if you cannot levitate, you
must climb! Fortunately, you can begin a climb from a fall! Position yourself
right in front of the opening and as perpendicular to the wall as possible; use
the compass needle to face yourself as North as possible. When you walk off the
edge you will fall for a little, and then start climbing! You'll have to get
pretty close to the right point of the elevator, and it may take a few tries,
but you can do it. If you did it correctly, then you will climb right into the
opening.

Follow the passage up to the room, and talk to the man. His name and the answer
to the riddle is "Benefactor". This will open the top of the pyramid. Make your
way back to the opening, and either levitate or make a running suicide leap
onto the pyramid. Ride the elevator down. You will find a elevator in the
Northeast corner; if it is still covered with a trapdoor, then you did not
click on the Easternmost gravestone properly. Ride it down, and drop down the
shaft to your right, and then down again to exit the section; if the last shaft
is covered, then you missed the Southeasternmost gravestone.


--- Area 3: The Temple

This one is the easiest. Take a left and go out into the open chamber, and then
follow the steps to the right down to the upside-down temple. You will find a
door on the East side of the temple, open the door and pull the lever you find
there. Now repeat for the West side. OK, now go back to the front and click on
the big blue crystal.


--- Area 4: The Skulls

You are in a room surrounded by eight doors. Take the left door on the South
wall, and follow the left wall until you go through a room and into a large
fiery chamber. It'd be a good idea to go ahead and drop down to the floor and
kill off the fire daedra, otherwise they'll be tossing fireballs at you all
day. Once they are killed, click on the cage to be teleported back to the room
just before the fire chamber.

Now click on the first skull to get your riddle. The basic gist is that you
need to click on the skulls who are looking inward toward the big skull. Easy
enough, the first one is West along the railing, the first skull you come to.
OK, now return to the intersection, and this time go South. The third skull
you come to should be facing inward, so click on it and continue on. That's it
for the skulls. Just continue along the railing to the end and jump in the eye
of the big skull.

Talk to Sheogorath if you want, but your destination lies down the elevator.
Oddly enough, the elevator is triggered by your movement across the floor, so
you'll want to wait for it to get to the top, them move around and jump on. At
the bottom you'll have to duck to squeeze through the door; click on the skull
and answer his riddle. If you were paying attention to the skulls, you'd have
noticed that only one was facing away from the skull, so the answer is "one".


--- Area 5: The Sword and Crossbow

You are now in a small closet and about to play Russian roulette with a bunch
of skulls. One of them opens the door, some of them make noise, some of them
teleport you, and some of them will kill you outright. Click on the right one
on the North shelf to open the door, where you will fight your way through a
spiraling passage to the end--or, if you click the middle one on the Eastern
shelf, it will teleport you to the end of the spiral. Nice!

From there, go West until you find a door, and up a lot of stairs. At the top,
climb or levitate up the shaft; if you climb, you will have to use the
sidestepping trick I showed you in Woodborne Hall. At the top of the passage
you will find another shaft; there is a passage on the North side that you need
to fall or levitate into.

Go straight North through the passage, though a secret door, and all the way to
the end, where you will find Sheogorath again. The answer to his riddle is
"crossbow". Now go back to the central shaft and fall down to the bottom.

You will find yourself on a platform next to a huge sword. Go down the hole
into the room inside, where you will find a box. Click on the left banner to
open the outer box, then click on the inner box to open it, then finally the
crystal. The island will begin to sink. Stay inside or go out to shoot at the
daedra lords. Once it has stopped sinking, you will see a large crossbow. Go
stand where the bolt would go, and then click on the left battleaxe. The
crossbow will fire, shooting you upwards. If you look down, you will see the
sword sloping back. Hop onto the sword and run up it, through the door and down
the elevator.


--- Area 6: The Mantella

This is it! You cannot get lost here; there is only one way to proceed. After
the hallway of pitfalls, you will see the Mantella. Levitate over and get what
you came here for. If you cannot levitate, then make a running jump onto the
shrine, then climb up the sides to reach the gem.


--- The End!

Congratulations! You just finished the main quest! Now sit back and watch the
cutscene; the ending is different depending on which faction you gave the Totem
to:

* If the Emperor won, he uses Numidium to reconquer the Illiac Bay and the
provinces of Tamriel, strengthening the empire.
* if the Underking won, then he sucks the energy from the Mantella and gives
himself his final rest.
* If Daggerfall, Wayrest, or Sentinel won, then they use Numidium to conquer
the other kingdoms of the bay. The empire is weakened. The Underking shows up
to destroy himself and Numidium at the last minute.
* if Gortwog won, he uses Numidium to conquer the other kingdoms of the bay
and the forces of the Emperor, but the Underking still arrives to destroy
himself and Numidium. Regardless, Gortwog secures a nation for the orcs.
* If the King of Worms won, he uses the Mantella to make himself into a god.
* If you tried to use the Totem yourself, Numidium crushes you and goes on a
rampage before the Underking shows up and blows himself and the golem up.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |                        ***  (Optional Quests)  ***                        |
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

19. Blackmail                                                               061
    Level Req: 4
    Quest Req: None

This and Quest 20. Elysana's Gift are mutually exclusive; if you take one you
cannot do the other.

If you talk to Prince Helseth in the great hall of Castle Wayrest, he'll give
you a quest. You are to deliver a letter to Lord Castellian. Easy enough. If
you do not read it, then all goes as planned and Helseth will pay you with a
magic something or other.

If you DO read the letter, then you have to make a choice. If you give it to
Castellian, then Helseth will still pay up, but your reputation for Wayrest
will drop significantly. If you give it to King Eadwyre, your rep with Wayrest
will increase significantly. It all depends on what outcome you want.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

20. Elysana's Gift                                                          062
    Level Req: 6
    Quest Req: None

This and Quest 19. Blackmail are mutually exclusive; if you take one you cannot
do the other. Anyways, head to the throne room of Castle Wayrest.

I hate this girl. She's engaged to Lord Woodborne, and every bit as conniving
and backstabbing as he is. This is in every way a trap, and you're stuck in it.
She wants you to deliver a robe to Lord Castellian (apparently she and her
brother Helseth just hate this guy); the robe, of course, is cursed.

If someone puts on the robe, it will summon Daedra Seducers to kill them. If you
put it on yourself, they will come for you--a tough fight for a level 6
character. Even if you defeat them, you fail the quest. No, you actually have to
give it to Castellian, who will of course be jumped by daedra seducers.

But wait, there's more! Not only will the Seducers attack you and Castellian,
but Castellian's guards will show up and attack you for trying to assassinate
their lord! What fun!

Once you're done, report back to Elysana so she can play the "Oh, I had no idea
that was cursed" card.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

21. A Book for Barenziah                                                    063
    Level Req: 9
    Quest Req: 18. Blackmail

If you did not deliver the letter to Castellian in Quest 19. Blackmail,
Barenziah may not offer this quest to you. It begins with a letter.

You are to retrieve a book that was stolen by the orcs. Interestingly enough, if
you do not retrieve the book in time, it will be stolen by the necromancers. If
that happens, talk to Gortwog and he will tell you they have it in the Scourg
Barrow. It is much easier to get the book from Gortwog, so make your way to
Orsinium quickly.

Go through the left door at the back of the great hall. Follow the passage,
taking a left at the first intersection you come to. You will eventually come
out at a large open chamber with a pyramid.

The book is down the in the pit at the center of the room, but the doors are
magically sealed. To unseal them, you'll have to reach the upper level. If you
cannot just levitate yourself up there, go jump in the fountain in the
Northeast corner of the chamber; it will transport you to the balcony. From
there, take the left staircase. At the next few intersections, go Left, Left,
Straight, and Left again. You will find a wheel; spin that wheel and go back to
the pit and jump in. The book is through the eastern door.

To get out of the pit, you will see a wheel stuck to the north wall of the
large, open shaft. Click on it to be transported to the balcony. Take the book
back to Barenziah and get your reward.

---

If you did not get there in time, then you'll have to make your way to the
Scourg Barrow in the Dragontail Mountains. It will be easiest to leave if you
drop a teleportation anchor near the entrance.

When you enter the Scourg Barrow, you will find nothing but a small room with
seven coffins; open the second coffin from your left to find the secret passage
--well, secret pitfall is more descriptive. Drop down and follow the passage to
a room with many doors. Go through the door immediately to your left, and
follow it to a fork. At the fork, go right and follow it until you reach the
rift; you'll know it when you see it. Drop to the bottom of the rift and follow
it all the way to the end, where it changes textures.

Look on your map to see the small triangular secret door on the south side of
the rift; open the passage and follow it to a wheel. Spin the wheel and then go
across the rift to the passage opposite the secret door, and follow it to the
chamber with the book.

Now, to get out again, the best way is to teleport to the anchor you should
have set at the entrance. If for whatever sick reason you neglected to lay an
anchor, the way is rather difficult. The ONLY way to get back out is to go all
the way back to the beginning of the rift and levitate or try to climb out.
You cannot actually climb any of it, as the walls are slanted, but there are a
few places where the slope is just barely light enough for you to walk up.

Once you get out with the book, you can either give it to Gortwog or Barenziah.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

22. The Madness of Nulfaga                                                  064
    Level Req: 3
    Quest Req: None

If you talk to Aubk-i, she will ask you to go check on Nulfaga, who is the
mother of Lysandus, and quite insane to boot. She lives in her Castle of
Shedungent in the Wrothgarian Mountains.

The room you are looking for is actually right in front of the entrance. The
difficulty is that to get through that door, you must know the password, which
you get from Nulfaga. If you want the password, read ahead and then click on
the banner to give your answer; otherwise, I'll walk you through the long way.

The easiest way that I know of goes like this: Go west from the entrance and
follow the passage; after some stairs, it will come to an intersection. Go West
and then South at the next branch. You will pass under a portcullis; continue
down the corridor and through the room at the end into another passage. Go West
to the end of the passage.

Do not go through the door you see, but through the one you don't see--the
secret door to the North; it blends perfectly into the wall, but your map will
still show it. Follow the passage until you pass through a door. Go East at the
intersection and then straight until you go down some stairs. Go East again,
and follow the passage until you enter Nulfaga's chamber.

Talk to her and she will babble about some nonsense. The only useful thing she
says is to "shut up the door", which tells you that the password for the
shortcut is "shut up". The next time you come back (and you will), just click
on the banner and give the password for a quick entry.

Once you've talked to her, report back to Aubk-i for a few gold.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

23. Mynisera's Letters                                                      065
    Level Req: 3
    Quest Req: 21. The Madness of Nulfaga

Well, you helped out Aubk-i with Nulfaga, now she wants you to dig up some dirt
on Mynisera. You are to go to Mynisera's castle and find some letters she has
left there. The dungeon is supposed to be random, but for whatever reason it
almost always picks Castle Necromoghan. Nevertheless, the location within the
castle is still random, so you're still on your own for this one.

Snag the letters, which turn out to be nothing of any real importance, other
than to show that Mynisera has had dealings with the orcs.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

24. Elysana's Trap                                                          066
    Level Req: None
    Quest Req: 06. The Letter Retrieved

Ah, she's back with another quest/trap. This time, however, the target is you.
You are to escort her "cousin" to another town. Easy enough, really, except
that you'll be jumped by assassins everywhere you go until you ditch the girl.

The only reason to take this, unless you just like assassins ambushing you, is
to get the location of Lysandus's Tomb. If you screwed up Quest 10. The
Underking, then this is the only way to get the location; one of the assassins
will have a note with the location.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
